%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 
\section{The Light Readout System} 
\label{sec:detectors-fd-alt-light}

The baseline assumption in the LAGUNA-LBNO design study was to use for
the detection of the scintillation light 8-inch cryogenic
photomultipliers (Hamamatsu R5912-02mod) with TPB coating. The PMTs
are placed below the cathode at about 1m distance.  The application of
the TPB coating can be done at the level of the glass itself on on a
transparent plate mounted over the photocatode surface. The WA105
demonstrator will use 36 photomultipliers R5912-02mod (1/$m^2$ of
cathode surface). The mechanics for the PMTs fixation has been
carefully studied in order to counter act the PMT buoyancy while not
stressing the PMT glass, as it could happen due to differential
effects in the thermal contraction between the support and the PMT
itself.

A 15--20~kt dual-phase liquid argon detector will be equipped with a
large number of PMTs which, depending on the PMTs density on the
detection surface below the TPC cathode, can reach up to 1000
units. The large number of photosensors calls for an integrated
solution for the front-end electronics. Solutions of this kind have
been studied, in the framework of the R\&D program PMm2 \cite{PMM2-1,
  PMM2-2}, for the instrumentation of giant water Cherenkov detectors
with photomultipliers. The solution developed by this R\&D represents
an important handle for costs reduction. The signal digitization is
performed by grouping the photomultipliers in arrays of 16. Each
photomultiplier array is then read out by an ASIC chip in AMS SiGe
0.35~$\mu$m technology. The ASIC, which is called PARISROC
(Photomultiplier ARrray Integrated in Si-Ge Read Out Chip)
\cite{Parisroc}, provides a complete readout system for trigger-less
acquisition.

%\begin{cdrfigure}[Layout of the PARISROC ASIC]{parisroc}{Layout of the PARISROC ASIC used for the production of the second iteration of the chip (from Nucl.Instrum.Meth. A623 (2010) 492-494).}
% \includegraphics[width=.5\textwidth]{PARISROC2}  
%\end{cdrfigure}

The frond-end electronics for the light readout of the WA105
demonstrator will be based on the solution developed within the PMm2
R\&D. The PARISROC ASIC, as described in the following, is currently
adapted to the time structure of the scintillation light produced in
the interactions of secondary particles in neutrino interactions in
LAr. The detection of the direct scintillation light (S1) is the main
purpose of the electronics in order to provide the absolute time.  The
electronics will be also process the signals from the scintillation
light (S2) produced by the electrons when extracted and amplified in
the gaseous phase.

The PARISROC chip reads the signals of 16 photomultipliers totally
independently from each other. Each analogue channel consists of a
low-noise preamplifier with variable and adjustable gain (8 bits) to
compensate the relative photomultiplier gain differences powered by a
single high voltage. The preamplifier is followed by a slow channel
for the charge measurement in parallel with a fast channel for the
trigger output. The slow channel includes a variable (50-200 ns) slow
shaper followed by an analogue memory with depth of 2 to provide a
linear charge measurement up to 50~pC; this charge is then converted
by a 10-bit Wilkinson ADC. The fast channel is composed of a fast
shaper (15~ns) followed by a low offset discriminator to auto-trigger
down to 10~fC. This auto-trigger feature makes the PMT array
completely autonomous from the other PMT arrays. The threshold is
loaded by an internal 10-bit DACs common for the 16 channels.

%\begin{cdrfigure}[Block diagram of the PARISROC ASIC.]{block-diag}{Block diagram of the PARISROC ASIC.}
 %\includegraphics[width=.7\textwidth]{parisroc_blockdiag.pdf}  
%\end{cdrfigure}

The variable gain of each pre-amplifier provides the flexibility to
adapt the system to the characteristics of each individual
photomultiplier after they have been correctly calibrated. Regarding
the time stamping process, there are two TDC ramps working in phase
opposition, this way, the dead time when the ramp goes to zero is
reduced by selecting the other ramp, that will be in its linear
state. Then, when an event arrives, the value of the correct ramp is
digitized and inserted into the data stream that includes: a 24 bit
counter that goes much slower than the ramps to have a coarse time
measurement, a flag that indicates which ramp has been digitized, an
ID of the channel triggered and the time stamp and charge information.

%\begin{cdrfigure}[MicroTCA rack and Bittware S4AM board]{LRO-rack}{MicroTCA rack and Bittware S4AM board}
 %\includegraphics[width=.6\textwidth]{rack}  
%\end{cdrfigure}

The light read-out is fully integrated in the WA105 DAQ scheme. A
microTCA crate hosting the light readout digitization cards is
naturally integrated in this architecture by taking into account the
common time distribution and data transmission systems.  During the
data taking outside the beam spills a trigger which can be generated
by the light readout microTCA crate and its time-stamp can be
transmitted over the Withe Rabbit network similarly to the beam
triggers.

On the light readout front-end board there is also an ADC (AD9249 from
Analog Devices) that digitizes the charge information for every
channel independently. The charge measurement provides information
that can be correlated with the one coming from the PARISROC for
better precision. A prototype of the light readout AMC is also being
realized by still using the Bittware development card S4AM and a
mezzanine card including the ADC and the trigger circuit (see
Figure~\ref{fig:DAQ_LRO}).
\begin{cdrfigure}[Block diagram of the light readout AMC demonstrator card]{DAQ_LRO}{Block diagram of the light readout AMC demonstrator card}
 \includegraphics[width=.6\textwidth]{DAQ_LRO}  
\end{cdrfigure}

On this board, the PARISROC chip provides the timestamp at nanosecond
level and generates the trigger. In parallel, there is an ADC AD9249
that is continuously digitizing all channels independently at 65~MSPS
with 14 bits. The FPGA Stratix IV from the Bittware S4AM card controls
and programs the ADC and PARISROC. It also receives the data coming
from both PARISROC and ADC. It controls which information will be
passed through the network to store it for its analysis.  The charge
digitization of the light signals is performed at 14~bits in samples
of 15~ns. Considering a 5~$\mu$s light signal duration, the
digitization will produce more than 300 samples. With this amount of
data it is possible to measure not only the total charge generated but
also the shape of the signal and decay of the light for the long
component.

%The firmware of the FPGA is in its early stage of development and there is still an open debate about which information will be useful. It will definitively include the time stamp of every event on each channel as well as the digitization of the charge received in each of them. Some questions concern the duration of the PMT sampling and the feasibility of including some real-time processing. This could include an inverse filter of the RC circuit to compensate its contribution.

With this light readout architecture and the White Rabbit time
distribution system, it is possible to achieve 1 ns accuracy at the
level of trigger generation for the T0 and time stamping of the
events. This trigger is then sent to the general DAQ and the event
builder. The charge readout system of the TPC is however running at
2.5~MHz, so the minimal time unit in the reconstruction of the drift
is 400~ns.
