%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{The Photon Detection System}
\label{sec:detectors-fd-ref-pd}

The scope of the photon detector section includes the design,
procurement, fabrication, testing, delivery and installation of all
the systems and components that comprise it:  

\begin{itemize}
\item wavelength-shifting wave-guides
\item silicon photo-multipliers (SiPMs)
\item readout electronics
\item related infrastructure (frames, mounting boards, etc...)
\end{itemize}

The design presented here meets the required performance for light
collection for the DUNE far detector. The most significant
requirements include determination of t$_0$ of an event relative to
the TPC timing - resolution better than 30~ns, and sufficient light
collection efficiency to allow triggering on SN neutrinos with
energies as low as 20~MeV.

Liquid argon is an excellent scintillating medium. With an average
energy needed to produce a photon of 19.5~eV (at zero field) a typical
particle depositing 1~MeV in liquid argon will generate 40,000~photons
with wavelength of 128~nm. At higher fields this will be reduced but
at 500~V/cm the yield is still about $\sim$20,000~photons per
MeV. Roughly 1/3 of the photons are promptly emitted after about 6~ns
while the rest are are emitted with a delay of 1100-1600~ns. LAr
is highly transparent to the 128~VUV photons with a Rayleigh
scattering length and absorption length of 95~cm and >200~cm
respectively. The relatively large light yield makes the scintillation
process an excellent candidate for determination of $t_{0}$ for
non-beam related events. Detection of the scintillation light may also
be helpful in background rejection and triggering on non-beam events.  

Figure~\ref{PD_overview} shows the system layout for the photon
detector system, which will be described in the following sections. 

\begin{cdrfigure}[PD Overview]{PD_overview}{Overview of the photon detector
    system showing the a cartoon schematic (a) of a single PD module
    in the LAr and the channel ganging scheme used to reduce the
    number of readout channels. Panel (b) shows how each PD module
    will be inserted into an APA frame. }
\includegraphics[width=1.0\linewidth]{pd_schem.png}
\end{cdrfigure}

\subsection{Reference System Design}

The baseline design for mounting the PDs into the APA frames calls for
ten PD modules, approximately 2.2m long, 83~mm wide, and 6~mm thick,
equally spaced along the full length of the APA frame
(Figure~\ref{PD_overview}~(b)). 

The 128~nm scintillation photons from liquid argon interact with the
wavelength shifter on the light guide surface and 430~nm light is
re-emitted in the bar. The light guide channels the light to
12 silicon photo-multipliers (SiPMs) mounted at one end of the bar.

The wavelength shifter converts the scintillation photons striking the
bar surface and directs them into the bar bulk with an efficiency of
$\sim$50\%.  A fraction of the waveshifted optical photons are
internally reflected to the bar's end where they are detected by SiPMs
with quantum efficiency well matched to the wavelength-shifted
photons. The light guides are made with a coating of TPB
(1,1,4,4-tetraphenyl-1,3-butadiene). A testing program is currently
underway to determine the absolute performance of the light-guides in
in liquid argon.

The SiPMs used in the reference design are SensL C-Series 6~mm$^2$
(MicroFB-60035-SMT) devices. These SiPMs have detection efficiency of
41\%~\footnote{The detector efficiency combines QE and effective areal
  coverage due to dead space between pixels.} While the C-Series SensL
SiPMs are not rated for operation below -40$^{\circ}{\rm C}$ their
performance has been excellent for this application. At LAr
temperature (88K) the dark rate is on order 50~Hz while after-pulsing
has not been an issue. Extensive testing is underway to ensure that
the SiPMs can reliably survive the stresses associated with thermal
cycling in LAr and long term operation at LAr temperature.

The SiPMs are read out using shielded twisted pair cable, one per SiPM
but the expected final design will have 3 SiPMs ganged together and
each readout cable with contain 4 individual channel cables to keep
the cost and cable packing desity down.  

The front-end electronics reside outside of the cryostat in
instrumentation racks. A custom module for receiving SiPM signals has
been designed and built. The module also performs signal processing in
the front-end as preprocessing for trigger and DAQ.  The module is
called the SiPM Signal Processor (SSP) and consists of 12 readout
channels packaged in a self-contained 1U module.  Each channel
contains a fully-differential voltage amplifier and a 14-bit, 150 MSPS
analog-to-digital converter (ADC) that digitizes the waveforms
received from the SiPMs. There is no shaping of the signal, since the
SiPM response is slow enough relative to the speed of the digitization
to obtain several digitized samples of the leading edge of the pulse
for the determination of signal timing. Digitized data is processed by
a Xilinx Artix-7 Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA).  The use of the
FPGA processing allows for a significant amount of customization of
the SSP operation. 

\subsection{Alternative Designs} 

Two alternative designs are currently being considered for the PD
system. The first alternative design is based on a TPB-coated acrylic
panel with an embedded S-shaped wavelength-shifting fiber. The LSU
group has developed prototypes based on this design in an attempt to
increase the geometric acceptance of the PD system and hence reduce
overall system cost. 

A single acrylic panel PD module has the same dimensions as the
reference design and consists of a TPB coated acrylic panel with an
embedded S-shaped wavelength shifting (Y11) fiber. The fiber is read
out by two SiPMs, which are coupled to either end of the fiber and
serves to transport the light over long distances with minimal
attenuation. The double-ended fiber readout has the added benefit of
providing some position dependence to the light generation along the
panel by comparing relative signal sizes and arrival times in the two
SiPMs. The WLS fiber converts the 430~nm light from the TPB to light
with a peak intensity of about 480 - 500~nm which is well matched to
the peak photon detection efficiency of typical SiPMs.

A second alternative being explored by the CSU group utilizes
blue-green (Y11) fibers that has not been treated with TPB. A thin TPB
coated acrylic radiator located in front of a close packed array of
WLS fibers. The motivation for this design was to address an issue
with the reference design where the application of TPB to acrylic, or
other base materials, causes a significant decrease in attenuation
length (down to about 30~cm) of the light-guide. There is also a
reduction in the number of SiPMs required per PD module. Three SiPMs
are needed per PD module (again the same dimensions in length and
width as the reference design). 

The IU group has taken the radiator and fiber design to the next level
by replacing the Y11 fiber with a reference design dimensioned cast
bar doped (by Eljen Technology) with the same wavelegth shifter as the
Y11 fiber. The TPB-coated acrylic radiator has also been replaced with
a thin fused silica plate coated with TPB. This prototype has
demonstrated an attenuation length greater than 2.5~m and early
indications seem to indicate it could meet the SN neutrino energy
requirement. It is the ``brightest'' prototpye tested so far. 

\subsection{Technology Selection}

The alternative designs have all demonstrated the ability to detect
LAr scintillation light, and development work is continuing. In Fall
2015 a decision will be made as to whether to proceed with the current
reference design or move to one of the alternatives. A testing program
is underway comparing the various alternatives against the baseline
design. The Tallbo large dewar at FNAL and the cryogenic detector
development facility at CSU are being used to compare the performance
of full scale, and near full scale, prototypes in LAr utilizing alpha
sources and cosmic muons. The DUNE technical board, or equivalent
body, will review the designs using data from the comparison tests and
recommend the design we will optimize for the first 10~kt LAr TPC.
